URL filtering leverages URL categories to determine what action to take for each category.
There are two groups of categories: custom URL categories and the dynmaic categories provided by the URL filtering license.

Custom URL categories:
Custom URL categories do not require a license, so you can create these object and apply URL filtering even without access to the URL filtering license.
Go to Objects | Custom Objects | URL category


The string used in a custom URL category is divided up into substrings, or tokens, by separators. The ./?&=;+ characters are considered separators, so www.example.com has three tokens and two separators.

Wildcards cannot be used as part of a token; for example, www.ex*.com is an illegal wildcard. Each string can be closed by a forward slash (/) or be left open by not adding an end slash. Not ending a string could have consequences if the string is very short or very common as it could match unintended longer addresses. For example, the *.com string could match www.communicationexample.org, so adding an ending slash would prevent this. Having multiple wildcards would require the use of a subdomain, so *.*.com would match anything.anything.com, but not anything.com.

Actions for URL Filtering Profiles:
-Allow: Allows a category without logging
-Alert: allows a category and logs the access in the URL filtering log.
-Block: Blocks the request injecting an HTTP 503 error and a redirect to a page hosted on the firewall explaining to the user that their access was declined and the action logged.
-Continue: Inject an interactive web page informing the user that they are about to access a restricted website and provides a Continue button for them to acknowledge the risk associated with accessing the site.
-Override: Injects an interactive web page that allows the user to continue if they are able ot provide a password to continue. This password can be set in Device | Setup | Content-ID | URL Admin Override.

The order of severity is as follows:
1.Block
2.Override
3.Continue
4.Alert
5.Allow

The order of categories is as follows:
1.Custom URL categories
2.External dynamic URL lists
3.Pre-defined categories

